# Nginx Server Setup

To setup a basic Nginx server, we just need to proceed by completing the following steps (assuming that we're using Ubuntu as OS):

1. Update the repository

```
sudo apt update
```

2. Install Nginx

```
sudo apt install nginx
```

3. Check status of Nginx

```
sudo systemctl status nginx
```

4. Enable the Nginx server to ensure Nginx server auto-restarts upon crashing

```
sudo systemctl enable nginx
```

5. Bring your application folder or files in the server. Let's say, we want to copy our application folder/directory from our local machine. So, for this we need to execute the following command:

   ```
   # first compress the files or folder/directory you want to copy
   tar -cvf name_of_tar_file.tar your_directory_to_compress

   # copy the file
   sudo scp -P PORT location_of_the_tar_file_in_source_host user@ip_address:location_where_you_want_to_paste

   # scp basic format
   sudo scp [OPTION] [user@SRC_HOST:]file_location_to_copy [user@DEST_HOST:]file_location_to_paste

   # now to extract the compress files/folder in remote machine or server
   tar -xvf compressed_file_name.tar
   ```

6. Set the Nginx configuration
   In Nginx we have two important directory, one is **sites-available** and another is **sites-enabled**. In **sites-enabled** we'll make our configuration and in **sites-enabled** we need to make a **softlink** of our config file from **sites-available**. By default, there is a file named **default** in the **sites-available** directory, which we need to remove from **both directories** to set up our own configuration file. To configure our new file, we need to execute the following command:

   ```
   cd /etc/nginx/sites-available
   sudo vim your_config_name

   # OR

   sudo vim /etc/nginx/sites-available/you_config_name
   ```

   It's the best practice to make a new file with the name of your own application or domain name in the following directory.
   Now in your config file write down the following lines:

   ```
   server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your_domain.com www.your_domain.com;

    access_log /var/log/nginx/your_access_log_file.log;
    error_log  /var/log/nginx/your_error_log_file.log;

    root location_of_your_application;
    index index_file;

    location / {
        try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
    }
   }
   ```

   Setting up a server block is easy! First, we just need to specify the port for listening to the server. By default, nginx listens on port 80. Then, we can specify the domains on which the server will listen. Don't forget to set up your access and error logs in the third and fourth lines. Next, we'll need to specify the root directory and the index file of our application. Finally, let's indicate the location from where to take the necessary files.
   That's it!

7. Save the config file

8. Make softling of the config file in **sites-enabled**

   ```
   sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/your_config_file /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
   ```

9. Now best practice is test the nginx config

```
sudo nginx -t
```

10. Another best practic to **soft reload** the server to identify any uncaught errors after testing

```
 sudo nginx -s reload
```

11. Restart Nginx server and check the status
    ```
    sudo systemctl restart nginx.service
    sudo systemctl status nginx
    ```

That's it.

**#Happy_automating_on_your_DevOps_adventure**
