# Configure SSL Certificate

Let's take a look at how we can set up and configure SSL on our Nginx server.

1. Get SSL Certificate
   We can acquire the SSL certificate bundle from a certificate authority such as Namecheap, RapidSSL, Comodo, GoDaddy, or choose a free SSL provider like Let's Encrypt.

   When we obtain an SSL certificate from a certificate authority, they will provide us with three files. These files will be sent to our email or can be accessed by logging into their website. The files are as follows:

   i. Key file – This is our private key file, so we should keep it safe and not share it with others. The name of the key file is like our_domain_name.key

   ii. Certificate – This is the actual SSL certificate for our domain, which is what makes our website secure. Seems like this file could be your_domain_name.crt

   iii. Intermediate – This is the root/intermediate certificate that helps verify your SSL certificate. This file name may be from the certificate authority. The file name is like certificate_authorityCA.crt.

2. Create a directory for SSL inside nginx directory of the server machine (best practice)

   ```
   sudo mkdir /etc/nginx/ssl
   cd /etc/nginx/ssl
   ```

3. Store those three files in the directory by copying from local machine (using scp) or somehow

4. Then link the certificate and intermediate files to create a bundle.crt file

   ```
   cat your_domain_name.crt certificate_authorityCA.crt >> bundle.crt
   ```

5. Now edit the nginx configuration file

   ```
   server {
    listen 443;
    ssl on;
    # ssl_protocols TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
    ssl_certificate /etc/nginx/ssl/bundle.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/nginx/ssl/private.key;

    ...
    ...
   }
   ```

   The commented line in the example specifies the SSL protocols enabled by NGINX. In this case, TLS versions 1, 1.1, and 1.2 are enabled, but feel free to customize this to your config based on your needs.

6. Test, soft reload, and finally restart Nginx server

**_(Optional)_** We can also use Certbot to configure SSL with some few commands. See https://certbot.eff.org/

**#Happy_automating_on_your_DevOps_adventure**
